The President:
Hi, everybody.
Next week marks seven years
since a financial crisis on
Wall Street that would usher
in some hard years for
working families
on Main Street.
Soon after that,
I took office.
And we set out to rebuild
our economy on a new
foundation for growth and
prosperity by investing in
things that grow our middle
class - things like jobs,
health care, and education.
Today, our businesses have
created more than 13 million
new jobs over the last
five and a half years.
The unemployment rate is the
lowest it's been in more
than seven years.
Another 16 million
Americans have gained
health insurance.
Our high school graduate
rate is the highest it's
ever been, and more people
are graduating from college
than ever before.
We are coming back
- and stronger.
Still, in an economy that's
increasingly based on
knowledge and innovation,
some higher education
is the surest ticket
to the middle class.
By the end of this decade,
two in three job openings
will require some
higher education.
That's one reason why a
degree from a two-year
college will earn you
$10,000 more each year than
someone who only
finished high school.
One study showed that a
degree from a four-year
university earns you $1
million more over the
course of a lifetime.
The country with the
best-educated workforce
in the world is going to win
the 21st century economy.
I want that to be America.
But as college costs and
student debt keep rising,
the choices that Americans
make when searching for and
selecting a college have
never been more important.
That's why everyone should
be able to find clear,
reliable, open data on
college affordability
and value - like whether
they're likely to graduate,
find good jobs, and
pay off their loans.
Right now, however, many
existing college rankings
reward schools for spending
more money and rejecting
more students - at a time
when America needs our
colleges to focus on
affordability and
supporting all
students who enroll.
That doesn't make sense,
and it has to change.
So, today, my Administration
is launching a new
College Scorecard, designed
with input from those who will
use it the most - students,
families, and counselors.
Americans will now have
access to reliable data
on every institution
of higher education.
You'll be able to see how
much each school's graduates
earn, how much debt they
graduate with, and what
percentage of a school's
students can pay back
their loans - which will help
all of us see which schools
do the best job of preparing
America for success.
And to reach more folks,
we're working with partners
in the academic, non-profit,
and private sectors that
will help families use this
new data to navigate the
complicated college process
and make informed decisions.
The status quo serves some
colleges and the companies
that rank them just fine.
But it doesn't serve our
students well - and that
doesn't serve
any of us well.
There are colleges dedicated
to helping students of all
backgrounds learn without
saddling them with debt.
We should hold everybody
to that standard.
Our economic future
depends on it.
This work is
just beginning.
In the coming weeks and
months, we'll continue
to improve the Scorecard
based on what we learn from
students, parents,
counselors, and
colleges themselves.
The goal is to help
everybody who's willing
to work for a higher
education search for
and select a college
that fits their goals.
Together, we can make sure
that every student has
the chance to get a great
education and achieve
their full potential.
Thanks, everybody.
And have a great weekend.